Welcome to our update.
The spiritual highlight of our year,
the memorial of Christ death,
was observed by God's people on April 4, 2023.
In the week's prior,
Jehovah's Witnesses Unitedly extended the invitation
to this event, the world over.
This was the first time since the pandemic began
that we could again offer invitations for the memorial
by means of the House to House and Public Ministry.
No doubt, many had been able to expand their ministry
during this memorial season,
including those who could serve as auxiliary pioneers
with the new 15-hour requirement.
It's thrilling to think about the millions of brothers
and sisters and interested ones who gathered for the memorial
to show their appreciation for the gift of the ransom.
When we face unexpected events or loss,
we are especially reminded of how vital the ransom is.
As a brotherhood,
we were shocked to hear about the shooting
that occurred at a Kingdom Hall in Hamburg, Germany
in March 2023.
Please note the following video update.
On the evening of Thursday, March 9, 2023,
a terrible tragedy happened in Hamburg, Germany
after the midweek meeting concluded.
Sadly, four brothers and two sisters
as well as an injured sister's unborn child were killed.
In addition, two brothers and seven sisters
were seriously injured.
We are happy to report that none of them
are in intensive care.
Following the shooting,
direction was given that all meetings in Hamburg
should be held by video conference only.
The Hamburg-Vinterhoody congregation deeply desired
to come together again
for in-person meetings as soon as possible.
Shortly thereafter, approval was given
for all meetings to resume in person,
starting with the very next midweek meeting.
Some of the injured were even able
to join the meeting from the hospital using Zoom.
The Central Europe Branch Committee
made immediate arrangements to give comfort and support.
To bolster the relief committee which had been appointed,
branch committee members and their wives
traveled to Hamburg and accompanied
the responsible circuit overseer.
Special meetings were organized to coordinate visits
to the affected brothers and sisters
which often meant staying at their side
literally day and night.
Every day, a tremendous number of letters and cards
from all over the world continue to be delivered to the hall.
The brothers and sisters are completely overwhelmed
and deeply touched by these expressions
of affection and fellow feeling.
All congregations within the state of Hamburg
were invited to a memorial service held on Saturday,
March 25, 2023.
More than 3,000 brothers and sisters attended in person
and over 90,000 connections were made to view this program
via stream, many of whom viewed the program
with friends and family.
All in attendance were touched by the heartwarming words
from branch committee members
as well as the visiting governing body member and helper.
This memorial service provided strong evidence
of Christian love, a convincing testimony
that Jehovah's people do not face such situations alone.
Our brothers in Hamburg have experienced Jehovah's loyal love
throughout this very distressing situation.
After attending the funeral, one sister wrote,
the commemoration for the victims in Hamburg
was most dignified and deeply moving.
The profound biblical thoughts, the unadulterated truth,
the message of comfort, love, trust, and hope delivered
with such dignity, tenderness, and empathy
cannot but have moved every sincere heart
and has given a resounding witness
for our wonderful God, Jehovah.
We have also received many expressions
of sympathy from officials, organizations,
and individuals from around the world.
For example, the federal president of Germany
said, to all of you, dear bereaved, dear friends,
and companions of the victims, my sincere and deepest sympathy.
You have the sympathy of the people of Germany.
They feel and mourn with you.
They share in your suffering.
No doubt we all continue to keep our brothers
and sisters in Hamburg in our prayers.
Another recent event that's had a significant impact
on our brothers and sisters was Cyclone Freddie,
which struck East Africa.
In February and March, 2023, Cyclone Freddie
made multiple landfalls and brought strong winds,
heavy rain, and flooding.
Sadly, in Malawi, eight publishers were killed
and three are currently missing.
And in Mozambique, one publisher was killed
and one is missing.
There's extensive damage in Madagascar, Malawi,
and Mozambique.
Altogether, over 7,000 publishers and their households
were displaced.
More than 1,400 of our brothers' homes
were damaged or destroyed and 24 kingdom halls
were damaged or destroyed.
When the branch committees, circuit overseers
and local elders responded quickly
to provide comfort and support, along with help
for their immediate material needs.
Relief efforts are underway to provide humanitarian aid
and to repair or rebuild their kingdom halls and homes.
This may well be the largest relief effort
that our brothers in Malawi have faced.
Please keep these dear brothers and sisters
in your prayers, along with those who are working hard
to provide relief.
When we face trials or tragedies,
we are not the only ones who are affected.
At Isaiah 63-9, it says of Jehovah
during all their distress, it was distressing to him.
This assures us that Jehovah is affected too.
He's moved to help his faithful servants.
And especially during times of distress,
he can become our refuge.
He stands ready to help us.
But how can we benefit from his help and protection?
Well, the answer can be found in what we read
at Psalm 91, verse 9.
It says,
because you said,
Jehovah is my refuge,
you have made the most high you're dwelling.
It doesn't just say that Jehovah is our refuge,
but that we have made him our refuge.
We can make Jehovah our refuge
by drawing close to him during our trials.
How?
We lean on him in prayer.
We keep up our good spiritual routine.
We stay busy in the ministry.
And we look for ways to encourage others.
When we do this as individuals,
we make Jehovah our refuge.
Then, even when we do suffer tragedies
of one sort or another,
our faith and our spiritual security
will not be destroyed.
And when we do this as a brotherhood,
when we all turn to Jehovah in times of distress,
it unites us further.
And it gives a wonderful witness.
An example of this is what our brothers experienced
on Abeko Island in the Bahamas.
In 2019, they suffered a category five hurricane.
Hurricane Dorian destroyed the only kingdom hall
on the island and damaged or destroyed
16 of our brothers' homes.
What did our brothers do?
They made Jehovah their refuge.
They relied on him in fervent prayer.
They supported one another through that trial.
And as soon as it was safe to do so,
the kingdom hall was rebuilt.
Recently, the kingdom hall was completed
and then dedicated in January 2023.
Let's watch the following video.
The sun's shining, not a cloud in the sky.
We're in Abeko to dedicate this beautiful kingdom hall
right here.
I can't wait to be a part of this and see this
and be able to sing with my brothers and sisters
from the Abeko congregation and the Haitian congregation
and be able to hear our voices play.
But what a blessing from Jehovah that finally we can be here
for this wonderful program.
Here we are three years later.
We just didn't think that this day would actually come.
I received a text message I was at home.
Pray for Abeko.
The devastation to the kingdom hall was so complete.
That I think is forever etched in my mind.
You could see the kingdom hall chairs
and the publications thrown all around.
It reached your heart apart to see the kingdom hall like that.
We got to the airport and it looks like
there was no way out of this situation.
So the brother prayed and after he prayed,
it's like a window open for us to get out of there.
We got to NASA.
There was food, there was clothing, there was a...
It seemed like we were having a convention when we landed.
There were so many brothers there.
Plot cards singing to the top of their voice.
The operation was huge.
We almost had about 70 or 80 individuals that come in and out.
It was a mini army as it were.
We were a few weeks away from what was going to be
the fastest project I've ever worked on.
We were just absolutely finishing houses
and almost record speeds.
The kingdom hall was about to be ready for the memorial.
So we could start to see the end.
And then we got the call that COVID was putting an end to the project.
And our overseer, he got on stage and within three or four words,
he started crying.
I mean, we knew it was because we had to leave.
Sitting on that plane made me cry.
Thinking I was just leaving.
We kept thinking when will we be able to go back?
I got the phone call from my overseer.
And we wanted to get Abigail finished up and I was thrilled.
I was praying for that for 15 months to go back and finish this project.
When that herd came blue through,
it may have taken a lot of things with it,
but it sure didn't take your faith.
And it sure didn't take away your relationship with God.
When we got to NASA,
the friends sang and feeling out to us.
And so now they landed and we sang it to them.
It was overwhelming to listen and hear the beautiful voices of the brothers and sisters
singing about the love that we have amongst all of us.
To have seen what the friends went through
and how their hearts can be sued to have a place of worship is such a wonderful privilege.
And it was a joy to be back at the hall.
And it felt like we were victorious once again.
It doesn't matter if there's 10 publishers or 10,000 publishers,
Jehovah is going to take care of them.
It has been a reunion, a piece of paradise.
No matter what happens to us,
whether it be a natural disaster or unrest or war,
we're always going to be there for our brothers.
We're going to support one another, we're going to help each other.
And we're going to be okay with Jehovah's help.
It's so encouraging to see our brothers and sisters back in their kingdom hall.
Their love and appreciation for Jehovah and his organization is evident.
And they're making good use of their kingdom hall.
For this year's memorial, the 47 publishers of the two congregations
had a combined attendance of 217.
Before we conclude, we have a new feature in JW Library that we're excited to share with you.
JW Library will soon support playlists in the Personal Study tab.
With this feature, you'll be able to add videos, audio programs, and pictures to personal playlists.
For example, you can make playlists of your favorite theocratic songs,
or videos to use in the ministry.
You can also make a playlist of pictures to use in a talk,
and then share it with the audio video support brothers
so they can use JW Library to display the pictures.
Look for an update to the app in the coming weeks.
Brothers and sisters, what have we discussed?
Whatever trials or tests you're dealing with personally,
be assured that Jehovah sees you and is aware of what you're going through.
He too is affected and is moved to help.
So continue to lean on Jehovah in prayer.
Keep up your good spiritual routine.
Stay busy in the ministry and reach out to others for support.
Yes, continue to make Jehovah your refuge.
And please know that we love you all very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.